when planets are destroyed they
form an asteroid belt between
Mars and Jupiter there's an
asteroid belt was there a secret
planet there
hey there star children trace
here for dnews thanks for tuning
in a few weeks back we talked
about how the death star could
block the planet of Alderaan
resulting in the formation of an
asteroid belt and that got me
thinking
we have an asteroid belt and I
wasn't the only one on twitter
you are shawn pitts asked do you
think our asteroid belt was a
planet once and if it was how
big was it
the asteroid belt which
strangely doesn't have a name is
just called the asteroid belt or
main asteroid belt sits between
two and four astronomical units
from the Sun past Mars before
Jupiter
it's comprised of millions of
space rocks ranging in size from
small particles to the largest
known asteroids series which is
600 miles in diameter
so was there a planet there but
we know the birth of our solar
system know
there never was but almost
gravity is the support structure
formation of celestial bodies it
pulls material together so it
can form stars moons planets
galaxies so on too little or too
much and they won't form and
that area between Mars and
Jupiter is the ladder too much
gravitational interference
caused it to become a bunch of
rocks
there's a pretty little planet
physics dictates how far away
those bodies have to be from
each other to maintain stable
orbits
this was discovered in the late
18th century by je boat and is
called the tightest bowed law
essentially each planet's
orbital period is equal to the
period of the sun's rotation and
distance of the farthest reaches
of their orbit
according to this mathematical
equation there should be a
planet in between Mars and
Jupiter the orbit fits with the
math and a planet trying to form
but Jupiters massive gravity
tortoise under it just couldn't
do it
we know all that now but from
the 18th and into the 19th
century people believe that they
simply haven't spotted the
elusive planet yet
and then in 1801 giuseppe piazzi
discovered series
he believed that series might be
a comment but it didn't have a
coma
the gas and dust that surrounds
a comment a bit over a year
later a german named Heinrich
overs discovered another small
object on the same orbit that he
called to policy
eventually as more of these were
discovered astronomers knew
there was no planet in this
orbit but instead what they
called asteroids they discovered
the asteroid belt
despite what conspiracy theorist
may say on the internet these
billions of little asteroids
never formed into a planet
instead the gravitational forces
of our solar system kept it as a
bit of rock and dust but since
shawn pitts wanted to know how
large a planet would be if it
did happen to form we could give
it a guess
today series comprises one third
of the mass of the whole
asteroid belt
if you were to glomp the mass of
the rest of the belt on to
series
you'd still have less mass than
our Moon
dr. Ian o Neill space producer
for Discovery News says our moon
would still be 26 times more
massive than this superseries
like super tiny asteroids do
occasionally fly by earth which
some would call a close shave
but if you want a real close
shave
try Harry's we'd like to thank
them for sponsoring this episode
i use Harry's twice a week
shaved my neck
not so much the beard part but
the neck definitely in the
blades are sharp and the after
shave it smells great
a starter kit includes 3 razors
a handle in your choice of shave
cream or foaming shave gel
I go to jail it smells really
good I'm not kidding go to
Harry's . com now get your
starter kit for only 15 bucks
and with our code dnews can get
five dollars off of that and
then you can smell for yourself
all this comes back to planets
and their gravity and also the
order of those planets are in
Jupiters massive gravity can
really stop the yard
astronomically speaking but how
did the planets get in that
order
Amy and I tackle that one in
this video the question about
planetary formation remains an
ongoing debate because we've
never seen a planet form our
solar system is just one of many
possible configurations and
formations but how we got here
is pretty cool stuff
thanks so much for your question
Sean and thank you all for
watching dnews what are the
awesome science questions you
guys have you can tweet at us
using the hashtag ask dnews you
can let us know down in the
comments and we'll figure it out
thanks for watching
yeah